Sarah Hopkins you might have seen some
of my previous videos and today what I
want to do is share one of my favorite
recipes and in my opinion one of the
most healthiest and beneficial recipes
around so you may have heard about
fermented foods they seem to be a bit of
a trending topic at the moment and
that's because most of us have a pretty
poorly sort of run digestive system due
to excessive alcohol consumption coffee
consumption and antibiotics especially
so what fermented foods do is really
really popular the gut so really allow
they got to heal and allow the right
population of healthy gut flora to
repopulate that gut again and to get
things working sauerkraut is a really
simple recipe to make so I thought that
that would be a great one to start with
because it's really easy everybody can
do it it's also super cost effective you
can buy sauerkraut but it's quite
expensive all it takes is a cabbage and
some salt so I'll take you through the
process today and hopefully you can
incorporate this into your diet on a
daily basis so the first thing that we
need is a cabbage always has to be
organic organic is really important
foods that are not organic when they
ferment they're basically sort of
increasing that toxicity of whatever the
pesticides are that are present on the
food so organic is really important
which is obviously going to cost a
little bit more but it's a worthwhile
investment for your health so a cabbage
a good-quality fermenting jar is
important and the one that I've got here
is called a Fowler's the cola you can
use like the the clip lock jars but I
would recommend looking into a Fowler's
for Cola good quality sea salt so again
it's really important to get a good
quality naturally sourced sea salt we
don't want any refined salts they're not
going to allow the fermentation process
to occur adequately
then you just want some seasoning so the
seasoning I'm going to use today is
caraway seeds juniper berries and some
dill tips and we'll we'll have a look so
what we're going to do is we're going to
start with chopping the cabbage finely
and by the way be careful with the knife
otherwise you'll cut yourself like I did
so I find the best way to chop the
cabbage shown to me by a good friend
very recently is into quarters and then
it's easy to get that core out there we
go so then we're going to chop the
cabbage you can use a mandolin to do
this it does make it easier so you want
to you want to chop it relatively finely
watching out for those fingers so
hopefully you can see from this roughly
how finely you want it to chop so we've
got the whole cabbage finely chopped
into a nice big bowl bowl needs to be a
fairly good size and then we want to add
the salt so the salt is going to help
release the brine which is going to
allow the lacto-fermentation process
which is providing all that beautiful
bacteria that is going to heal ogre so
the rule of thumb with salt is that you
want about 2.5 to 3 percent of the
weight of the cabbage so in this case
we've got about 20 grams so I've weighed
that out I'm going to add that in then
I'm going to add my spices or seasonings
in so probably for this cabbage which
was about 800 ish grams I'm going to use
about a teaspoon and then I'm using
probably about a teaspoon of juniper
berries
well you'll steal tips still can be
quite strong so maybe half a teaspoon I
do have some fresh dill in the garden if
you do have fresh dill I would recommend
using that now for the fun part what you
want to do is we really need to release
all of the juices from this cabbage
because they're really making you know
the core sort of constituents of this
whole fermentation process so it's
called a brine so now we're going to get
in really mix that salt into the cabbage
which is going to take about ten minutes
so really work it it's a good workout
you really want to squeeze that cabbage
I like to call it mastication because
you it's like you're using your hands to
chew the cabbage with mastication is
chewing so you're really masticating
that cabbage to really release all that
see all that beautiful brine so that's
all of that Brian that's the sort of
sugar and starch containing the
vegetable that will allow the
fermentation process to occur so now
it's sort of it takes probably about ten
minutes for it to really get to this
level of brine enos and you can see that
it's really soft and briny and all those
herbs that are blended in and the most
important thing that you put in there is
love so make sure that you you know give
it lots of love and really massage
massage all of your goodness into it and
now we're going to place it into our
fermenting jar which I am a little bit
uncoordinated at but that's okay so this
is also sort of part of the important
and important part of the process so we
need to make sure that we're packing
that cabbage in really really tight
because the cabbage needs to be entirely
covered by Brian for the fermentation
process to occur in the best possible
environment so really really punching it
down and we've got lots of Brian in the
bottom here so it's gonna be really well
covered and obviously it's important to
wash your hands before you do this that
seems like a pretty obvious thing to do
but just to make sure that you're
getting the right bacteria in there and
not anything else that you might have
been touching and if you are squeamish
about that you can use some rubber
gloves I've obviously got a rubber
finger for where I've cut myself but you
can use you know well fitting rubber
gloves but I think you know there's
something to be said for really getting
in contact with and having some personal
connection back to our food which again
is really sort of playing into that
whole paleo piece you know it's about
getting back to our natural roots and
our ancestors always fermented food and
they always use their fingers and hands
to eat and and touch and prepare their
food and so I personally think that
using your hands is the best way to
prepare a really good healthy robust
sauerkraut okay so we've got lots of
beautiful brine and we're going to push
that down so that it covers I'm gonna
really jam it in so that it's nice and
tight and actually that's probably the
right height you want to leave a little
bit of room because when it starts to
ferment it can actually start to bubble
as you can see here there is a little
bit of bubbling going on so you want to
make sure that you do have about that
width between the sort of the top of the
brine and then the lid so now we're
going to place the lid on so this
particular fermenting jar and all good
fermenting jars should
be creating an anaerobic environment so
no oxygen that's that's the idea so with
this particular Jar make sure that the
rubber band is fitted correctly around
the outside and then pop that leads on
it and I like to line it up with the
line that's on the top of the lead and
there you have it
beautiful amazingly healthy jar of
sauerkraut which is amazing for a
healthy gut flora and also tastes
absolutely delicious so I'm gonna leave
that now in a dark place so probably in
my pantry for up to four weeks in this
particular jar so I'll probably leave
this for somewhere between two to four
weeks to really allow the optimal
fermentation process to occur and after
that it can be popped into the fridge or
popped into another jar and enjoyed you
know as a condiment once a day or twice
a day if you feel like it to really help
reconstitute the gut flora and improve
your health for this recipe and many
more head to my blog which is health -
well being calm today you and I look
forward to seeing you again soon